README.md, before:

# Useful POV-Ray macros

The include file vectors.inc for POV-Ray v3.7 contains these macros related to 3D vectors, transforms and transform functions:

## ScalarTripleProduct(vA, vB, vC)

Calculates the scalar triple product of the vectors vA, vB and vC

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triple_product#Scalar_triple_product

## VectorTripleProduct(vA, vB, vC)

Calculates the vector triple product of the vectors vA, vB and vC

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triple_product#Vector_triple_product

## VectorCos(vA, vB)

Calculates the cosine of the smallest angle between the vectors vA and vB

The result is between -1 and +1, including the limits

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiplication_of_vectors

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dot_product#Geometric_definition

## VectorSin(vA, vB)

Calculates the sine of the smallest angle between the vectors vA and vB

The result is between 0 and +1, including the limits

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiplication_of_vectors

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross_product#Geometric_meaning

## AngleBetweenVectors(vA, vB)

Calculates the smallest angle between the vectors vA and vB

The result is in radians between 0 and +pi, including the limits

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dot_product#Geometric_definition

## AccurateAngleBetweenVectors(v1, v2)

Calculates the smallest angle between the vectors v1 and v2

The result is in radians between 0 and +pi, including the limits

It is more accurate than the AngleBetweenVectors if the vectors are almost parallel or almost antiparallel

## ScalarProject(vA, vB)

Calculates the scalar projection of the vector vA on the vector vB

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_projection#Scalar_projection

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scalar_projection

## VectorProject(vA, vB)

Calculates the projection of the vector vA on the vector vB

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_projection#Vector_projection

## ScalarReject(vA, vB)

Calculates the scalar rejection of the vector vA from the vector vB

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_projection#Scalar_rejection

## VectorReject(vA, vB)

Calculates the vector rejection of the vector vA from the vector vB

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_projection#Vector_rejection

## OrthogonalVector(v0)

Calculates, if possible, a normalized vector that is orthogonal to vector v0

If v0 is the zero vector then the resulting vector is also the zero vector

## AltOrthogonalVector(v0)

Calculates, if possible, a normalized vector that is orthogonal to vector v0

If v0 is the zero vector then the resulting vector is also the zero vector

## VectorAxisRotate(v0, vAxis, Angle)

Calculates the rotation of the vector v0 around the vector vAxis by the angle Angle in degrees

Note that direction of rotation in POV-Ray's left handed coordinate system is opposite of rotations in right handed corrdinate systems

(The sign of the sine part in the macro is therefore negative)

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rodrigues%27_rotation_formula

## VectorReorient(v0, vFrom, vTo)

Calculates the reorientation transformation from the vector vFrom to the vector vTo applied to the vector v0

## FunctionValue(Fn, v0)

Evaluates the function Fn() at the coordinates in the v0 vector

It works with both regular trivariate functions and transform functions

## VectorTransform(v0, Transform)

Calculates the transformation Transform applied to the vector v0

## VectorInverseTransform(v0, Transform)

Calculates the inverse of the transformation Transform applied to the vector v0

## MatrixTransform(vX, vY, vZ, pT)

Creates a tranformation given by a 4x3 matrix consiting of the row vectors vX, vY, vZ and pT

The 3x3 matrix represented by the row vectors vX, vY and vZ must not be singular

## VectorsFromTransformFunction(TransformFn, vX, vY, vZ, pT)

Extracts the row vectors vX, vY, vZ and pT from the 4x3 matrix inherent in the tranform function TransformFn()

## VectorsFromTransform(Transform, vX, vY, vZ, pT)

Extracts the row vectors vX, vY, vZ and pT from the 4x3 matrix inherent in the tranform Transform

## AxisRotateTransform(vAxis, Angle)

Creates a transformation that is a rotation around the vector vAxis by the angle Angle in degrees

Note that direction of rotations in POV-Ray's left handed coordinate system is opposite of the direction for rotations in right handed cordinate systems

## ReorientTransform(vFrom, vTo)

Creates a transformation that is a reorientation from the vector vFrom to the vector vTo

The vectors vFrom and vTo must not be antiparallel

Commit message:

add note about the built in vaxis_rotate() vector operator

README.md, after:

# Useful POV-Ray macros

The include file vectors.inc for POV-Ray v3.7 contains these macros related to 3D vectors, transforms and transform functions:

## ScalarTripleProduct(vA, vB, vC)

Calculates the scalar triple product of the vectors vA, vB and vC

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triple_product#Scalar_triple_product

## VectorTripleProduct(vA, vB, vC)

Calculates the vector triple product of the vectors vA, vB and vC

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triple_product#Vector_triple_product

## VectorCos(vA, vB)

Calculates the cosine of the smallest angle between the vectors vA and vB

The result is between -1 and +1, including the limits

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiplication_of_vectors

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dot_product#Geometric_definition

## VectorSin(vA, vB)

Calculates the sine of the smallest angle between the vectors vA and vB

The result is between 0 and +1, including the limits

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiplication_of_vectors

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross_product#Geometric_meaning

## AngleBetweenVectors(vA, vB)

Calculates the smallest angle between the vectors vA and vB

The result is in radians between 0 and +pi, including the limits

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dot_product#Geometric_definition

## AccurateAngleBetweenVectors(v1, v2)

Calculates the smallest angle between the vectors v1 and v2

The result is in radians between 0 and +pi, including the limits

It is more accurate than the AngleBetweenVectors if the vectors are almost parallel or almost antiparallel

## ScalarProject(vA, vB)

Calculates the scalar projection of the vector vA on the vector vB

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_projection#Scalar_projection

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scalar_projection

## VectorProject(vA, vB)

Calculates the projection of the vector vA on the vector vB

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_projection#Vector_projection

## ScalarReject(vA, vB)

Calculates the scalar rejection of the vector vA from the vector vB

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_projection#Scalar_rejection

## VectorReject(vA, vB)

Calculates the vector rejection of the vector vA from the vector vB

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_projection#Vector_rejection

## OrthogonalVector(v0)

Calculates, if possible, a normalized vector that is orthogonal to vector v0

If v0 is the zero vector then the resulting vector is also the zero vector

## AltOrthogonalVector(v0)

Calculates, if possible, a normalized vector that is orthogonal to vector v0

If v0 is the zero vector then the resulting vector is also the zero vector

## VectorAxisRotate(v0, vAxis, Angle)

Calculates the rotation of the vector v0 around the vector vAxis by the angle Angle in degrees

Note that direction of rotation in POV-Ray's left handed coordinate system is opposite of rotations in right handed corrdinate systems

(The sign of the sine part in the macro is therefore negative)

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rodrigues%27_rotation_formula

Note that POV-Ray has a built in vector operator; vaxis_rotate() that should be used instead.

## VectorReorient(v0, vFrom, vTo)

Calculates the reorientation transformation from the vector vFrom to the vector vTo applied to the vector v0

## FunctionValue(Fn, v0)

Evaluates the function Fn() at the coordinates in the v0 vector

It works with both regular trivariate functions and transform functions

## VectorTransform(v0, Transform)

Calculates the transformation Transform applied to the vector v0

## VectorInverseTransform(v0, Transform)

Calculates the inverse of the transformation Transform applied to the vector v0

## MatrixTransform(vX, vY, vZ, pT)

Creates a tranformation given by a 4x3 matrix consiting of the row vectors vX, vY, vZ and pT

The 3x3 matrix represented by the row vectors vX, vY and vZ must not be singular

## VectorsFromTransformFunction(TransformFn, vX, vY, vZ, pT)

Extracts the row vectors vX, vY, vZ and pT from the 4x3 matrix inherent in the tranform function TransformFn()

## VectorsFromTransform(Transform, vX, vY, vZ, pT)

Extracts the row vectors vX, vY, vZ and pT from the 4x3 matrix inherent in the tranform Transform

## AxisRotateTransform(vAxis, Angle)

Creates a transformation that is a rotation around the vector vAxis by the angle Angle in degrees

Note that direction of rotations in POV-Ray's left handed coordinate system is opposite of the direction for rotations in right handed cordinate systems

## ReorientTransform(vFrom, vTo)

Creates a transformation that is a reorientation from the vector vFrom to the vector vTo

The vectors vFrom and vTo must not be antiparallel
